Add Google Workspace connection documentation (#36243)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/actions/connections/google_workspace.md

---
title: Google Workspace
description: Connect Datadog Actions to Google Workspace services using OAuth2 to automate tasks in Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Docs, Sheets, Forms, and Chat.
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/actions/connections/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about connection credentials"
---

Use a Google Workspace connection to authenticate Datadog Actions against Google Workspace APIs. This allows you to interact with Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Drive, Google Docs, Google Sheets, Google Forms, and Google Chat in your workflows and apps.

## Prerequisites

> Before creating the connection in Datadog, you must set up an OAuth2 client in Google Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have an OAuth 2.0 client in Google Cloud to create a connection in Datadog.
```

> ### 1. Create a Google Cloud project

Reviewer: For the Create a Google Cloud project subsection — what do you think about replacing the inline steps with a one-line prerequisite that links to Google's own docs?

Project creation is generic Google Cloud onboarding that can drift out of sync with their UI. Linking out reduces docs maintenance without losing anything Datadog-specific.

Author: Good call; added link and removed from inline steps

If you don't already have a Google Cloud project:

1. Go to the [Google Cloud Console][1].
1. Click **Select a project** > **New Project**.
1. Enter a project name and click **Create**.

### 2. Enable the required APIs

Enable the Google APIs you plan to use in your workflows:

1. Navigate to [**APIs & Services** > **Library**][5] in the Google Cloud Console.
1. Search for and enable the APIs for the Google Workspace services you intend to use:

| Google Workspace service | API to enable |
|---|---|
| Gmail | Gmail API |
| Google Calendar | Google Calendar API |
| Google Drive | Google Drive API |
| Google Docs | Google Docs API |
| Google Sheets | Google Sheets API |
| Google Forms | Google Forms API |
| Google Chat | Google Chat API |

### 3. Configure the OAuth consent screen

1. Navigate to [**APIs & Services** > **OAuth consent screen**][6] in the Google Cloud Console.
1. Select a user type:
   - **Internal**: Limits access to users in your Google Workspace organization. Recommended for most enterprise use cases.

>    - **External**: Allows any Google account to authorize. Requires app verification for production use.

Reviewer: Will the user know what app verification is? Or can we link to a Google doc?

```suggestion
   - **External**: Allows any Google account to authorize the app. Requires app verification for production use.
```

1. Fill in the required app information fields and click **Save and Continue**.
1. Under **Scopes**, add the OAuth scopes required for the actions you intend to use. See the [scopes reference](#scopes-reference) below.
1. Complete the remaining steps and click **Back to Dashboard**.

### 4. Create OAuth2 credentials

1. Navigate to [**APIs & Services** > **Credentials**][7] in the Google Cloud Console.
1. Click **Create Credentials** > **OAuth client ID**.
1. For **Application type**, select **Web application**.
1. Under **Authorized JavaScript origins**, add the Datadog origin URL. This URL is displayed in the Datadog connection creation dialog when you select **Google Workspace**.

> 1. Under **Authorized redirect URIs**, add the Datadog OAuth callback URL. This URL is also displayed in the Datadog connection creation dialog when you select **Google Workspace**.

Reviewer: Optional suggestion, if it doesn't need to be broken up, could we combine the two?

```suggestion
1. Under **Authorized JavaScript origins**, add the Datadog origin URL. Under **Authorized redirect URIs**, add the Datadog OAuth callback URL. Both URLs are displayed in the Datadog connection creation dialog when you select **Google Workspace**.
```

1. Click **Create**.
1. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** — you need these when creating the connection in Datadog.

## Create the connection in Datadog

1. From the [Action Catalog page][2], click the **Connections** tab.
1. Click **New Connection**.
1. Select the **Google Workspace** icon.
1. Enter a **Connection Name**.
1. Enter the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from your Google Cloud OAuth2 credentials.
1. Select the **Scopes** required for the actions you plan to use. See the [scopes reference](#scopes-reference) below.

> 1. The **Authorize URL** and **Token URL** fields are pre-populated with Google's default OAuth2 endpoints. Leave these as-is unless you have a specific reason to change them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Leave the **Authorize URL** and **Token URL** fields as their pre-populated default  values unless you have a specific reason to change them.
```
